How do you approach having critical
feedback and having those conversations?
I think it's important to think
about setting up the space for
having the critical feedback,
making sure that people are in
the right headspace to receive,
this is really important.
It can be tricky because sometimes
they're not in the right place for a bit.
You need to try and navigate,
like you need to give the feedback,
like you do still have to deliver that.
But if someone's having a hard time, maybe
they have dealing with family issues,
who knows?
There's a lot of things,
we're dealing with people, right?
Maybe you wanna say like,
I'm not gonna give that to them right now,
that's not gonna be
helpful in this moment.
But there's ways in which you should check
in, is this person ready for feedback?
And there again,
our nice little assume best intent, right?
Even when I'm giving someone critical
feedback, I wanna assume that they're
mean well, and that if they made mistakes,
I wanna try and approach it with,
this person, they're doing their best and
I wanna try and treat it like that.
When you're giving critical feedback,
this is so important,
be as clear and concise as possible.
Leaving ambiguity is so hard.
And my team knows this, is like if I'm
saying you are not meeting expectations on
said thing, it's taken a lot more serious
than I think you could improve on that.
Those are two different things,
and I make sure that that's clear.
I talked about that before they even
have to hear critical feedback, but
I'll reinforce that it's clear and
concise as possible.
I've made mistakes where
it hasn't been clear.
I'm always trying to tighten that up and
make it as clear as possible.
You wanna frame the feedback, I think
Jem mentioned this, is in observation.
So I might focus in like, I've noticed
you're missing some timelines lately and
I'm kind of worried about that.
Is that something you're noticing too?
And this opens it up a little bit where
maybe there is an external factor that I'm
just unaware of this person
struggling with something, and so
we can kinda talk through that.
I can still see say, well,
you're not meeting my expectations,
but it will change up
on how I approach that.
If someone's dealing with some
major issue, it's like all right,
I don't need to pile on for them, and like
we can work through this in other ways.
So I do like to approach it with
that curiosity and ask you like,
share my observation, but then also get
their input and understanding on it.
You wanna provide concrete examples.
This one's tough, I think, too,
in the sense that I think sometimes you
can get over prescriptive on examples or
people get hung up on the examples.
I still find sometimes I
don't find the right balance.
Sometimes people are like, well,
I need more concrete examples.
Or, yeah, that's a lot,
they focus too much on the example and
not more on the common theme.
I still struggle with this one, but
I think it is really helpful to speak to
examples, especially ones
that are more in the moment.
Not, hey, six months ago you did this,
that's not good, that is not helpful.
People forget, or it's also why didn't
you give me that feedback six months ago?
So timely feedback is good too.
Be empathetic.
Understand that maybe this person was
a high performer on your team and
now they're not doing well.
Well, okay, let's seek to understand,
and these are people we're dealing with.
.Be patient, have an open dialogue,
have discussion,
hear them out, understand,
approach it with curiosity.